Add first draft material for an nf-core module writing workshop (#3140)
nf-core/website: sites/docs/src/content/docs/tutorials/nf-core_training/writing-nf-core-modules/chapter-8-using-in-pipelines.md

Simply run the following command from the root of the repository (or use `--dir` to specify the root):

```bash
nf-core modules install <toolname>/<subcommand>
```

This will download the modules files from the nf-core/modules repository directly into the existing `modules/nf-core` directory of your pipeline.

The console output will also handily give you a line you can copy and paste into your pipeline script to include the module 💪.

### Custom pipelines

If you are using a custom pipeline, you can still use the `nf-core modules install` command to download the module files into your pipeline.

If you do this, the first time you will be asked:

1. Whether this is a `pipeline` or `modules` repository: select `pipeline`
2. If you are OK with creating an `nf-core.yaml` file: select `yes`
   - This helps in the future for adding more modules to your pipeline
3. If you are OK with creating a `modules.json`: select `yes`
   - This file is used by nf-core tools to inform you of any updates to the modules you have installed

> This will create a directory and subdirectories within your pipeline repository called `modules/nf-core/<modulename>` where you can see all the files you created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a directory and subdirectories within your pipeline repository called `modules/nf-core/<toolname>/<subcommand>` where you can see all the files you created.
```

```nextflow
include { SAMTOOLS_FASTA } from '../modules/nf-core/samtools/fasta/main'
```

You may need to update the path in cases where you are using subworkflow scripts nested in other directories.

You can invoke the module as you would with any Nextflow module:

```nextflow
SAMTOOLS_FASTA (ch_input_for_samtoolsfasta, val_interleave)
```

However you may need to make some additional additional tweaks to your existing pipeline logic and files to make the module work correctly. These changes are described in the remaining sections of this chapter.

### Module channel structures

One of the most important things to remember when using an nf-core module is to reconfigure your input channels to ensure they match nf-core conventions.

The most important convention is the widespread use of [meta maps](https://nf-co.re/docs/contributing/components/meta_map).
If you do not already use meta maps in your pipeline, you might need to update the input channel going into the nf-core module.

A very simple example would be:

```nextflow
def val_interleave = false
ch_input_for_samtoolsfasta = ch_input

>                               .map{fasta -> [[id: fasta.simpleName] ,fasta]}

Author: I don't think it ever was? But can add for safety.

If you want to give a user more freedom if what options and arguments are passed to the tool in the module such as via a pipeline-level `params.` parameter, you can dynamically pass these to `ext.args` within a closure.

```nextflow {3}
process{
    withName: FASTQC {
        ext.args = { params.fastqc_quiet_mode ? '--quiet' : '' }
        publishDir = [
            path: { "${params.outdir}/fastqc" },
            saveAs: { filename -> filename.equals('versions.yml') ? null : filename }
        ]
    }
}
```

Or even the following, to inject a multiple specific values into the `args` string (which is concatenated with spaces).

```nextflow
process{
    withName: FASTQC {
        ext.args = { [
            params.fastqc_quiet_mode ? '--quiet' : '',
            "--kmers ${params.fastqc_kmers}"
          ].join(' ').trim() }
        publishDir = [
            path: { "${params.outdir}/fastqc" },
            saveAs: { filename -> filename.equals('versions.yml') ? null : filename }
        ]
    }
}
```

## Summary

In summary, at it's core using nf-core modules in your pipeline is as simple as installing the module and then invoking it in your pipeline script.

> That said are a couple of additional considerations for non-nf-core template pipelines to take into account regarding input channels and additional configuration options to specify in Nextflow configuration files, which we have described here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That said, there are a couple of additional considerations for non-nf-core template pipelines to take into account regarding input channels and additional configuration options to specify in Nextflow configuration files, which we have described here.
```
